# 这里是一些可以参考的Paper
## 格式: 文章内容(文章标题, 文章链接)  
1. Four of the 22 chronotype loci had missense variants in LD (r2>0.8) with the lead variant (**RGS16**, **EXD3**, **INADL** and **HCRTR2**; see S9 Table) [https://journals.plos.org/plosgenetics/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pgen.1006125](Genome-Wide Association Analyses in 128,266 Individuals Identifies New Morningness and Sleep Duration Loci)
2. Strongly associated with morning preference (OR = 1.21, 95% CI [1.16, 1.26], P = 8.9×10⁻¹³). Regulates G-protein signaling and circadian rhythms, likely optimizing light signal processing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Animal studies link RGS16 loss to disrupted circadian cycles. [https://journals.plos.org/plosgenetics/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pgen.1006125](Genome-Wide Association Analyses in 128,266 Individuals Identifies New Morningness and Sleep Duration Loci)
3. The association signal of the lead SNP rs75804782 is located approximately 100kb upstream of the PER2 (Period Circadian Regulator 2) gene. As a core circadian clock gene, PER2 plays a vital role in maintaining rhythmicity—Per2-knockout mice exhibit completely disrupted locomotor rhythms under constant darkness. [https://www.nature.com/articles/22118](Zheng B, Larkin DW, Albrecht U, Sun ZS, Sage M, Eichele G, et al. (1999) The mPer2 gene encodes a functional component of the mammalian circadian clock. Nature 400: 169–173. pmid:10408444)
4. Our findings likely reflect the same association, suggesting a potential connection between iris physiology and chronotype. Larsson et al. proposed TRAF3IP1 as the primary candidate gene at this locus due to its essential roles in cytoskeletal organization and neurodevelopment.[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2011.07.011](Larsson M, Duffy David L, Zhu G, Liu Jimmy Z, Macgregor S, McRae Allan F, et al. (2011) GWAS Findings for Human Iris Patterns: Associations with Variants in Genes that Influence Normal Neuronal Pattern Development. The American Journal of Human Genetics 89: 334–343. pmid:21835309)
5. 